---
author: DAACS
banner: img/AERA2019.jpg
categories:
- conferences
date: "2019-04-05"
publishDate: "2019-02-15"
tags:
- conferences
title: American Educational Research Association
---

# Efficacy of the Diagnostic Assessment and Achievement of College Students on Multiple Success Indicators 

**Authors**: Jason Bryer; Angela M. Lui; Heidi L. Andrade; David W Franklin; Timothy J. Cleary

## Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the effects and predictive power of the Diagnostic Assessment and Achievement of College Skills (DAACS) on student success. DAACS is a no-stakes, open-source, formative assessment tool designed to measure newly enrolled college students’ reading, writing, mathematics, and self-regulated learning (SRL) skills, and provide them with feedback and resources to enhance their functioning and success. A randomized control trial was performed at two online colleges (n = 17,687) to measure the effects in terms of academic achievement and credit acquisition. Predictive power of DAACS on student success were also examined. Results highlights the importance of using DAACS as a suite of assessments and supports, and not as isolated components. 

# Academic Success in Online Colleges: The Role of Self-Regulated Learning Profiles

**Authors**: Erica R. Pawlo; Timothy J. Cleary; Jacqueline Slemp; Jamal Waire; Jason Bryer; Thomas Gambino

## Abstract

Three core dimensions of self-regulated learning (SRL)—metacognition, motivation, and strategies—are essential for academic success, particularly in contexts that demand high levels of autonomy and self-direction, such as online learning environments. Consistent with the need and interest in using person-centered approaches, we used k-means cluster analyses to examine (a) the nature and stability of SRL profiles across two random samples of students from an online college, and (b) cluster differences across three high-stakes indicators of success (e.g., days to first credit, credits attempted, credits earned). Across both samples, a similar four-cluster solution emerged as most interpretable. Cluster differences in achievement were observed across all dependent variables and revealed advantages of certain profiles. Implications for research and practice are discussed.

# Evaluating Implementer Perceptions of an Assessment to Feedback System Through Thematic Analysis

**Authors**: Jacqueline Slemp, Erica Pawlo, Timothy Cleary, Nikki Sharoupim, Thomas Gambino

## Abstract

In addition to considering the overall effectiveness of an applied academic intervention, it is also essential to consider implementer perceptions of usability, feasibility, and importance of the intervention to identify potential barriers and increase acceptance and sustainability. This paper describes the results of a qualitative study examining college Academic Support Personnel (ASP) perceptions of an online assessment to feedback system. Fifteen ASPs at a large online university were individually interviewed to evaluate their perceptions of the usability, feasibility, and importance of the intervention. Thematic analysis showed that ASPs held both negative and positive perceptions. Overall, the ASPs perceived the intervention to be usable and important but expressed concerns about barriers to implementation including lack of time, resources, and training.

* [Conference Website](https://www.aera.net/Events-Meetings/Annual-Meeting/)

