---
author: DAACS
banner: img/2024AERA.jpeg
categories:
- conference
date: "2024-04-14"
publishDate: "2024-04-14"
tags:
- conference
title: DAACS at 2024 American Educational Research Association (AERA)
---

# College students’ responses to automated feedback on self-regulated learning 

**Friday, April 14th, Chicago, IL**

**Elie ChingYen Yu, Angela M. Lui, Heidi L. Andrade, David W. Franklin, Diana Akhmedjanova, Jason Bryer**

**Abstract** Feedback is a powerful tool for moving students’ learning forward. Research has focused on what counts as good feedback and how to give it, yet little is known about how students respond to feedback and if it serves its intended purposes. This paper uses Lui and Andrade’s (2022) model of the internal mechanisms of feedback processing as a framework to investigate how college students respond to expert-validated, automated feedback on their self-regulated learning (SRL) skills. Data are essays written by newly enrolled students at two universities. Students were prompted to reflect on and summarize the results of a self-report SRL survey with automated feedback, identify strategies for improving their SRL, and commit to using them. Qualitative content analysis was used to analyze 100 essays. The results reveal how students responded to feedback in terms of the judgments they made, the strengths and weaknesses most often discussed, and the strength of their commitment to the suggested strategies. Similarities and differences between the two institutions are described. Implications of the findings are discussed in terms of revisions to the SRL feedback, college readiness, and freshman advising. The study adds to the literature on responses to feedback by examining students’ judgments and interpretations of automated, expert-validated feedback on their SRL skills from a diagnostic assessment tool and comparing responses from institutions that serve different types of student populations. 

View the paper and poster here: https://aera23-aera.ipostersessions.com/Default.aspx?s=56-C2-76-98-E0-4A-28-DD-B1-C0-CF-E8-2A-E8-4C-86#stay 
